{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The HPF class was written by me for fun, as a tool for my own occasional use, and as a means to learn the classdef tools in MATLAB. HPF is a decimal floating point format, as opposed to the IEEE754 double precision numbers in MATLAB. You as the user can specify the number of digits to be carried. If you wish to work in 13 decimal digits, 100, or 100,000 digits, HPF allows it, and does so as efficiently as I could make that happen.\
\
To use HPF, simply download the HPF tools from the file exchange, then add the HighPrecisionFloat directory to your search path. Do NOT put the @hpf directory on your path. Do not put it in the MATLAB toolbox directories that came with MATLAB, but in a directory of your own. Do not move any of the files around. This is all you need do. There are no compiles necessary, no Java imports needed. HPF is written entirely in MATLAB. You can read the heavily commented code to see how I implemented specific functions.\
\
(A note for those who do understand classes in MATLAB: While it is not necessary for me to have used an @hpf directory since HPF is a classdef form of class, I did so anyway. It may seem overkill, but this has a purpose in allowing users to provide their own new methods for HPF easily. New method m-files should simply be put into the @hpf directory. Then do a \'93clear classes\'94 call at the command line in MATLAB, and your method will now be added to the set of all HPF methods.)\
\
I would recommend reading through the demo files. There are some examples of use in hpf_demo.html, where you can learn the basics. More examples can be found in hpf_regression_testing.html, although that latter file was not explicitly written for such a purpose. A great deal of information is available in the HPFMod.pdf file, including some basic ideas about how HPF was written. (That file was graciously enhanced by Derek O\'92Connor in this latest release.)\
\
As far as completeness goes, I wish that ALL functions were HPF compatible. That chol or eig does not work on HPF arrays is a limitation, that one day will perhaps be  mitigated. Since I have only so much time to write, test, and debug these tools, at some point I had to stop writing and post HPF on the File Exchange. In fact, the HPF tools will surely still have some bugs in them although I\'92ve been earnestly testing every facet I could. So if you do find a bug, please report it to me, and I will endeavor to repair the problem, and will do so immediately.\
\
John D\'92Errico\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:woodchips@rochester.rr.com"}}{\fldrslt woodchips@rochester.rr.com}}\
}